---
layout: post
title:  "Setting up Your Referral Program: ClickMeter and Refersion"
date:   2013-08-10
---

<p>I'm making a shift in my marketing efforts for&nbsp;<a href="http://www.texascustomholsters.com" target="_blank">Texas Custom Holsters</a>&nbsp;or rather attempting to add an affiliate program, also known as a referral or partner program. Basically a pay-for-performance marketing program or revenue sharing program, holy cow we've created a lot of names for the same thing. The basic idea is:</p><p><b><i>PAY FOR CONVERSIONS</i></b><br></p><p>I understand that I need to get exposure and display ads word... in volume. I also understand that all of your advertising and marketing channels work together in such a way as the sum is greater than the parts. It all makes sense and we will keep some ads going and will keep pursuing exposure on Facebook, Twitter, Google+, Pinterest, Flickr and our own blog. All that being said I need some help, and I need help that will be ROI positive.<b><br></b></p><p>Enter the pay for performance marketing program. I like this idea because it means that I will get help from marketers that are much better at marketing than I am, and we will expand existing word-of-mouth if there are no minimums (refer even one friend... get paid). How do we go about putting this together? The first thing I did was look at affiliate programs because&nbsp;<i>affiliate program</i> is the big buzz word right now.</p><ol>
<li>Commission Junction</li>
<li>Clickbank</li>
<li>Share A Sale</li>
<li>Avant Link</li>
</ol><p>All of these are great companies and will put together a great program for you. All of these options also have something else in common... Fee structures that are both big and complex. Clickbank might be a little better but they only allow digital / downloadable products so I couldn't use them. What's next? What if I could just focus on tracking conversions. If I could get a simple conversion tracking system in place, then I could send payments through PayPal and voila I'll have my program setup.</p><p>Thus I signed up for&nbsp;<a href="http://www.clickmeter.com" target="_blank">http://www.clickmeter.com/</a>&nbsp;- a somewhat dated feeling website but they have a free signup and even the pay for features aren't pricey at only $35/month. They seem to do conversion tracking very well. This is also very beneficial for me because I don't necessarily need my potential partners to signup. I can go into Click Meter and create any urls I want, assign them how I want and I'm done. This means for offline retailers where I'm making an in store display I can create their link, generate a QR code, print the display and ship it to them. I can then automate the sending of their monthly report from Click Meter. Done and done.</p><p>While putting that solution together I ran across another solution by chance.&nbsp;<a href="http://www.refersion.com" target="_blank">http://www.refersion.com/</a>. This solution is appealing because they integrate with Shopify and my store is a Shopify store. Due to the extremely low barrier to entry and six months free I went ahead and signed up and installed Refersion. Compared to the other affiliate programs and even to Click Meter, Refersion is pretty rough around the edges and missing major features. They are very new and are working on adding some of the more important branding features like using your own domain for the affiliate urls. Refersion does have a couple of nice things like an affiliate signup page with information that you can put about how you run your program, requirements, expectations, etc... It also has a creatives section so you can share banners and whatnot with your affiliates.</p><p>So far I like it and after having it up for a week now I've already signed one affiliate. My main concern is still that most of the places that I would want to sign up as an affiliate probably will NOT like to join or signup at Refersion or really any other third party affiliate site. That leaves Click Meter still as the most versatile and cost effective solution.</p>