---
layout: post
title:  "Ruthless Automation and Delegation"
date:   2013-12-15 14:32:39
categories: 4-hour-workweek update
---

<p>Since I posted about <a href="http://kevinamerson.com/ruthlessly-cutting-back">Ruthlessly Cutting Back</a>, I've been working hard to make this a reality. I've accomplished a lot on my TODO list by adopting those principles. Cutting out non-actionable information is critical and doing that alone is a huge help. Some minor things like reducing laundry frequency, &nbsp;turning sync off on my phone, and making better use of Google's Priority Inbox feature all add up to savings as well enabling me to get more done.</p><p><b>But I still do a lot of boring things</b></p><ul>
<li>Post to Facebook and Twitter twice per week</li>
<li>Send an email to all customers X days after they purchase asking them why they purchased and how they like the product, how the product has affected or changed their lives</li>
<li>Rotate the facebook ad weekly</li>
<li>Manage banner ads (rotate, renew)</li>
<li>Follow up on orders (or miss orders) coming from different channels like Etsy</li>
</ul><p>Mostly this still means the same thing... These tasks don't get done. Or at least they don't get done consistently and timely. They also add stress to my everyday life and distract me from developing and selling better products. Enter ELance, Fiverr, and Craigslist. In&nbsp;<i>The 4-hour Workweek</i>, Timothy recommends some places to help you get people to do these things. Elance, and Ask Sunday are both there. I read up on Ask Sunday and it seems great; being that I'm new to this, I want to be a little more organized before I commit to a monthly minimum. So I tried out ELance, Fiverr, and Craigslist.</p><div><b>ELance</b></div><p>I had used ELance awhile ago to get some programming done for a website of mine. It takes quite awhile to get your job setup, then to find candidates, review them... ultimately to agree on work terms, fund your account and then get going. So if it all falls apart while negotiating terms, you start over. Since the candidates are likely to be offshore, the negotiating and in general, the communication time takes awhile. It took over a week to get my last job kicked off.</p><p>Maybe if you're getting an ongoing virtual assistant, or an ongoing job this will be okay. It is a onetime fee. However, if you're hiring for one or two week gigs, or even one or two hour gigs, then it is way too much.</p><p><b>Fiverr</b></p><p>Fiverr is very fast but unpredictable. Find the gig that you want, pay and then give them the info they need. Sit back and your gig should be completed quickly. Not always the case. In order to maintain high ratings, providers might email you a little run around to buy themselves a day or two, and then before you know it, a week later they cancel your gig and you get a refund (Since they canceled you, you can't rate them). Great for small gigs that should be done within a few hours that requires almost none of your time. I haven't done any repeated gigs on Fiverr, like ongoing posts to Facebook. I believe Fiverr recently closed the gap on the cancel loophole by providing a percentage of canceled gigs on the gig page.</p><p><b>Craigslist</b></p><p>Also can be a time suck reading ad after ad after ad, or responding to tons of applications. However, for finding more localized people at a great rate, craigslist has proven best. Even if there is a $5 gig on fiverr for some 10 minute job, there is also a posting on craigslist and since you get to deal directly with the individual you might have much better long term success. Especially if it involves handing over post admin access to your Facebook account. My success story: I get copy reviewed and re-written for under $20, the results are great and I can just email the person any new copy that I need done with no weekly time commitment. They live right here in LA, and communication is a breeze.</p><p><b>Practice&nbsp;</b><br></p><p>Just like anything it takes practice. First to recognize that someone else should be doing something, then to be able to clearly communicate what you need and want, then to choose the right people to get it done, and keep getting it done. Be ruthless and offload as much of that boring work as you can.</p>