---
layout: post
title:  "Yes We Can"
date:   2014-05-06 22:45:22
categories: update
---

<p>Default questions and answers are as follows:</p><p><b>Can we do {...}?</b>&nbsp;<i><u>Yes</u></i><br></p><p><i><b></b></i><b>How hard is it to do {...}?</b><i> <u>Not bad</u></i><br></p><p>These answers pretty much apply across the board because that's just how humans work. We are not wired to dream up incredibly new things, rather, we are wired to increment or iterate on something that we've seen someone else do. Because of that I can safely say "yes" and "not bad" to the vast majority of those interrogations without really even knowing the <b>{...}</b>.<i><br></i></p><p>The natural follow up is:</p><p><b>Is doing {...} a good idea?</b> Is this the best thing to spend our time and money on right now?</p><p>This is a much harder question to answer without context, and without a list of alternative&nbsp;<b>{...}</b>s to consider (yours or your competitors). We have to answer it with a few questions:&nbsp;</p><p><b>1. Is this {...} <u>better</u> than all of the other {...}s?</b><br></p><p>In our startup-focused world, better is usually defined using metrics like&nbsp;<u>traffic potential</u>,&nbsp;<u>revenue potential</u>,&nbsp;<u>ease of implementation</u>,&nbsp;<u>cost</u>,&nbsp;<u>engagement</u>, and&nbsp;<u>deterrents</u>.&nbsp;</p><p><b>2. Is this {...} <u>newer</u> than all of the other {...}s?</b><br></p><p>This can be taken as newer for the company, as in, something that <u>we've never</u> tried before. Newer can also mean that it is new for the consumer or business customer like how a color tv is newer than a black and white tv (newer technology), or how a 2014 car is newer than a 2001 car (literally newer). In our startup-focused world we usually mean&nbsp;<i>newer technology</i>.<b><br></b></p><p><b>3. Is this {...} <u>different</u> than all the other {...}s?</b><br></p><p><b></b>Different here can really mean&nbsp;<i>modified design.</i> Sometimes I'll look at a design change someone made and think to myself, "wow I'm not sure about this, but it sure is&nbsp;<i>different</i>, it might be worse than the others, but idk, wow it is really&nbsp;<i>different".&nbsp;</i>A modified approach, or a way of thinking or looking at a solution/problem can lead to really innovative products.<br></p><p>In summary, if you're hyped up on&nbsp;<b>{...}</b> and you don't know whether or not you should jump in, ask yourself if this&nbsp;<b>{...}</b> is&nbsp;<i>newer, better&nbsp;</i>and/or&nbsp;<i>different</i>. If it is none of those three things, then chances are that when you're successful, nobody will care.</p>